# Sour Cream Doughnuts

## Ingredients
### Doughnuts
* 240g granulated sugar
* 35g unsalted butter
* 5 large-egg yolks
* 380g sour cream
* 600g all-purpose flour
* 15g baking powder
* 12g kosher salt

### Glaze
* 100g whole milk
* 0.5t salt
* 400g powdered sugar

## Procedure
### Dough
* Whisk together pastry flour, salt, and baking powder. Set aside.
* Line a large tupperware with plastic wrap and spray the surface of the wrap with cooking oil. Set aside.
* Stand mixer w/ paddle attachment: beat together sugar, butter, egg yolk on high speed until mixture lightens and increases in volume, 2min. Stop the mixer.
* Add sour cream to stand mixer, mix on medium until homogenous. Stop the mixer.
* Turn the mixer on low and gradually add the dry ingredients you previously whisked together. Add more as soon as the flour from the last addition no longer appears dry in the mix. Don't let this take too long, or you'll form too much gluten.
* Transfer the dough to the plastic wrap lined tupperware and fold the edges of the greased plastic wrap around the dough. Cover with a lid and refrigerate.
* Dough can be used as soon as 60min, or kept for as long as 1.5wk in the refrigerator.

### Glaze
* Heat milk, don't boil, just heat up to perhaps 160F.
* Stir in sugar and salt, combine until dissolved.
* Store or use. Can be reheated easily in microwave.

### Frying
* Preheat fryer to 350F.
* Dust surface with flour.
* Remove enough dough for current batch (you can make just one, if appropriate, or the full batch).
* Shape dough into squares, 2"x2"x0.5". Slice top of squares to provide expansion fissures.
* Fry about 5-6minutes, turning occasionally.
* Remove to cooling rack, glaze.

=> gemini://nnix.com/index.gmi Home