# Denser Sourdough Bread

## Ingredients
* 227g sourdough starter
* 340g lukewarm water
* 362g + 241g all-purpose flour
* 14.32g salt
* 3.19g (granular) citric acid
* Additional ingredients for modifications below, if desired.

## Procedure
* Combine 227g starter, 340g water, and 362g flour in a bowl. Beat vigorously for 60 seconds.
* Cover, allow bowl to rest at 72F for four hours. Refrigerate overnight, at least more than twelve hours, and up to 20 hours.
* Add the remaining 241g flour, citric acid, and the salt. Knead well to form a smooth dough. If using a stand mixer and a dough hook, knead on a low speed for about five minutes.
* Allow the dough to rise in a covered bowl at 72F. Turn the dough out on a surface every 90 minutes or so and knock back the gas gently, returning it to the bowl. Rise for a total of about five hours.
* When shaping the loaf, achieve an appropriate surface tension using a roll method to ensure consistent results.
* Place the loaf on parchment paper in a shallow bowl about twice its diameter. Put the loaf, in the shallow bowl on parchment, in a garbage bag (preferably clear) or bin liner. Inflate the garbage bag or bin liner gently and tie it off - you're not looking to make a taut balloon here, you just want enough air in the bag to keep it away from the dough.
* Allow the loaf to rise for between 2 and four hours. Preheat the oven and cloche to 450F when appropriate.
* Dust a loaf with flour, slash with a scissor, and transfer to cloche using peel.
* Bake 20min with the cloche closed.
* Bake 20min with the cloche lid removed.
* Check bread for temperature > 204 F using an instant thermometer inserted 0.5" into the center-bottom of the loaf. Bake a little longer if temperature not yet reached.
* Cool bread on rack.

## Modifications
* You can add 2T dry rosemary, or more fresh, to make a rosemary sourdough. Add before kneading.
* You can mix in 2T roasted garlic paste to make a garlic sourdough. Add before kneading.
* You can mix in a head (or two) of roasted garlic cloves after the rising and just before proofing. Simply fold the garlic into the loaf while shaping. This is the most highly recommended modification - the roasted-garlic-clove sourdough is wonderful.
* You can bake in a cold pot from a cold oven too: let the bread proof in a closed iron or clay pot, lid on. When ready, dust with flour, slash top, and place, lid on, in a cold oven. Set oven to 450F and begin time on loaf when oven reaches an indicated 450F. The last ten minutes of your bake time should be lid-off.

=> gemini://nnix.com/index.gmi Home