```
             _      
 _ __  _ __ (_)_  __
| '_ \| '_ \| \ \/ /
| | | | | | | |>  < 
|_| |_|_| |_|_/_/\_\
```
=> https://www-cs-faculty.stanford.edu/~knuth/mmix.html (+)

## About
I am a person and I do person things.

## Tools
=> fit/index.gmi fit

## Contact
=> https://davidemerson.com
=> https://keybase.io/syzygetic

## aNONradio
=> radio/djv4.gmi 2021-07-01 DJ Vole's Week-End July 2, 2021
=> radio/djv3.gmi 2021-06-25 DJ Vole's Week-End June 25, 2021
=> radio/djv2.gmi 2021-06-18 DJ Vole's Week-End June 18, 2021
=> radio/djv1.gmi 2021-06-11 DJ Vole's Week-End June 11, 2021

## Food
=> food/bread_pastry Breads & Pastries
=> food/desserts_snacks Desserts & Snacks
=> food/dips_spreads Dips & Spreads
=> food/drinks Drinks, alcoholic and non-alcoholic
=> food/main Main courses

## Gemlog
=> gemlog/17.gmi 2021-06-07 aNONradio Streaming Setup
=> gemlog/16.gmi 2021-06-04 DJ Vole's Week-End
=> food/drinks/tax_lawyer.gmi 2021-05-24 The Tax Laywer
=> food/drinks/golden_milk_latte.gmi 2021-05-24 Golden Milk Latte
=> food/drinks/gin.gmi 2021-05-17 DIY Gin!
=> gemlog/15.gmi 2021-04-09 Detection & Enterprise
=> gemlog/14.gmi 2021-04-07 Interviewing
=> fit/index.gmi 2021-04-06 fit is code-complete
=> gemlog/13.gmi 2021-04-06 Tech in Small Teams
=> gemlog/12.gmi 2021-04-01 Technology Skills Shortage
=> fit/index.gmi 2021-03-30 fit ported to 2040
=> gemlog/11.gmi 2021-03-30 Container Security
=> gemlog/10.gmi 2021-03-24 Automation
=> food/drinks/margarita.gmi 2021-03-16 Margarita (with mezcal)
=> ulysses/uly-codename.zip 2021-03-16 Generate code names using words from Ulysses
=> fit/index.gmi 2021-03-15 fit works
=> gemlog/9.gmi 2021-03-12 On Exactitude in Science (Borges)
=> ulysses/index.gmi 2021-03-10 Ulysses
=> food/drinks/smoky_bonfire.gmi 2021-03-07 Smoky Bonfire Cocktail
=> gemlog/8.gmi 2021-03-04 fit
=> gemlog/6.gmi 2021-03-02 Part the Second: ceci n'est pas une évaluation
=> gemlog/5.gmi 2021-03-01 Part the First: ceci n'est pas une évaluation
=> food/bread_pastry/sourdough_bread.gmi 2021-02-23 Roasted Garlic Sourdough Bread
=> gemlog/4.gmi 2021-02-22 Consumption Toward Optimization
=> food/drinks/sazerac.gmi 2021-02-21 Barrel-Aged Gin Sazerac
=> food/desserts_snacks/cinnamon_rolls.gmi 2021-02-21 Cinnamon-Cardamom Rolls
=> gemlog/2.gmi 2021-02-19 Ephemeral Mail
=> gemlog/1.gmi 2021-02-15 The First 30 Days
=> gemlog/0.gmi 2021-02-15 Reset

## Links
=> //brewed.midnight.pub/table.gmi A Table
=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space/ the main Gemini project page
=> gemini://geminispace.info/backlinks?nnix.com Backlinks for nnix.com

## Gemini
=> https://suckless.org/sucks/web/ Because content should be the primary concern.
### Build Your Own
If you want your own setup, I've got some GitHub repos here with containers and configurations you can repurpose:
=> https://github.com/davidemerson/nnix.com-gemini Agate Gemini Server in a container.
=> https://github.com/davidemerson/nnix.com-kineto Kineto Gemini-to-HTTP proxy in a container.
=> https://github.com/davidemerson/nnix.com-www NGINX proxy for Kineto w/ SSL and domain redirects.
=> https://github.com/davidemerson/capsule The static content for this site.
### as-a-Service
There are many good services which will host your content with minimal effort. Here's a couple:
=> gemini://midnight.pub/ midnight.pub hosted content
=> https://gemlog.blue/ gemlog.blue hosted capsules
### Handy Notes & Docs
=> gemini://gmi.alterzorg.fr/cuisine/cookies_noisette.gmi How to do cookies in Gemini
=> gemini://nnix.com/food/desserts_snacks/chocolate_chip_cookies.gmi Another way to do cookies in Gemini
