# Beef Bourguignonne

## Ingredients
* 750mL red wine (Beaujolais-Villages works well)
* six carrots
* 15 medium onions
* two stalks celery
* two cloves garlic
* 4 Tablespoons butter
* 1 Tablespoon tomato paste
* 2 Tablespoons flour
* 125g salt pork or bacon
* four sprigs thyme
* four sprigs parsley
* two bay leaves
* fifteen whole peppercorns
* Salt, pepper to taste

## Procedure
* Make a bouquet garni: wrap peppercorns, parsley, thyme, and bay leaves in cheesecloth and tie to ensure they don't escape.
* Skin onions but leave them whole.
* Chop bacon or salt pork coarsley.
* Peel and section carrots.
* Chop celery.
* In a large cast iron pot over medium-high heat, melt four tablespoons of butter and fry the salt pork or bacon until lightly brown.
* Remove the salt pork/bacon, leaving the fat. In the fat over medium-high temperature, brown the whole onions, just the ends will be fine. Remove the onions.
* Pat the meat dry and brown the meat in the same fat.
* When meat is brown on all sides, turn heat to low and re-add onion, carrots, celery, bouquet garni. Cover and simmer 20min.
* After a 20min simmer, remove all solids from the pan, and you should have juice in the bottom. Make a roux with a small amount of the juice and the flour, then introduce the roux to the rest of the liquid and whisk over medium heat until thickened, perhaps four minutes.
* Add tomato paste to liquid.
* Add garlic to liquid.
* Whisk until all lumps of tomato paste and flour (if any) are gone.
* Turn temperature to low. Pour in 1/3rd of a bottle of wine. Whisk to dislodge any stuck material on the bottom.
* Add everything back to the pan.
* Add the rest of the bottle of wine. Cover and allow cooking to proceed on a low simmer for at least 3.5 hours, stirring once an hour or so. Be gentle and stir infrequently.
* After the meat is very tender and the stew cooked to your liking, adjust seasoning. It probably needs more salt, since salt is best done after the cooking, not before.
* Allow it to cool, then transfer, in pot, to refrigerator. When it is fully cold, a 0.25in layer of fat will have solidified at the top. Get rid of all this fat, or at least as much as is convenient without destroying the good stuff.
* Reheat and serve.

=> gemini://nnix.com/index.gmi Home