# Meat Loaf

## Ingredients
### Meat
* 3oz Monterey Jack cheese, finely grated
* 1T unsalted butter
* 1 medium onion, finely chopped
* 1 medium rib celery , chopped fine (about 1/2 cup)
* 1 clove garlic, minced(about 1 teaspoon)
* 2/3t dry thyme
* 1t paprika
* 1/4C tomato juice
* 1/2C low-sodium chicken broth
* 2 large eggs
* 1/2t unflavored gelatin (powdered)
* 1T soy sauce
* 1t Dijon mustard
* 2/3C matzo meal
* 2t dry parsley
* 3/4t table salt
* 1/2t ground black pepper
* 2lb ground beef, .8 lean

### Glaze
* 1/2C ketchup
* 4dsh louisiana hot sauce
* 1/2t ground coriander
* 1/4C cider vinegar
* 1T packed light brown sugar

## Procedure
* Adjust oven rack to middle position; heat oven to 375 degrees. Spread cheese on plate and place in freezer until ready to use. Prepare baking sheet (see illustration below).

* Heat butter in 10-inch skillet over medium-high heat until foaming; add onion and celery and cook, stirring occasionally, until beginning to brown, 6 to 8 minutes. Add garlic, thyme, and paprika and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 1 minute. Reduce heat to low and add tomato juice. Cook, stirring to scrape up browned bits from pan, until thickened, about 1 minute. Transfer mixture to small bowl and set aside to cool.

* Whisk broth and eggs in large bowl until combined. Sprinkle gelatin over liquid and let stand 5 minutes. Stir in soy sauce, mustard, saltines, parsley, salt, pepper, and onion mixture. Crumble frozen cheese into coarse powder and sprinkle over mixture. Add ground beef; mix gently with hands until thoroughly combined, about 1 minute. Transfer meat to foil rectangle and shape into 10 by 6-inch oval about 2 inches high. Smooth top and edges of meatloaf with moistened spatula. Bake until an instant-read thermometer inserted into center of loaf reads 135 to 140 degrees, 55 to 65 minutes. Remove meatloaf from oven and turn on broiler.

* While meatloaf cooks, combine ingredients for glaze in small saucepan; bring to simmer over medium heat and cook, stirring, until thick and syrupy, about 5 minutes. Spread half of glaze evenly over cooked meatloaf with rubber spatula; place under broiler and cook until glaze bubbles and begins to brown at edges, about 5 minutes. Remove meatloaf from oven and spread evenly with remaining glaze; place back under broiler and cook until glaze is again bubbling and beginning to brown, about 5 minutes more. Let meatloaf cool about 20 minutes before slicing.

=> gemini://nnix.com/index.gmi Home