# Spanakopita

# Ingredients
* 2 Tbs olive oil 
* 2 cups minced onion
* 1/2 tsp salt
* 1 tsp oregano
* 1 tsp basil
* 2.5 lbs fresh spinach, stemmed and finely chopped (or 2.5 lbs frozen organic spinach)
* 5 medium cloves garlic, minced
* 3 Tbs flour
* 2 to 3 cups (packed) crumbled feta cheese (about 1 lb)
* 1 1/4 cup cottage or pot cheese
* Black pepper, to taste
* 1/3 to 1/2 cup olive oil, for the filo
* 1 lb filo pastry leaves (approx. 20 leaves)
* Fennel Seeds

# Procedure
* Preheat oven to 375 F. Oil a 9 by 13 inch baking pan.
* Heat 1 Tbs olive oil in a Dutch oven. Add onion, salt, and herbs, and sauté for about 5 minutes, or until the onion softens. Add spinach, turn up the heat, and cook, stirring, until the spinach wilts (5 to 8 minutes). Stir in the garlic.
Sprinkle in the flour, stir, and cook over medium heat 2 to 3 more minutes. Remove from heat.
* Mix in the cheeses. Taste to correct seasonings, adding lots of black pepper (and some salt).
* Place a sheet of filo in the oiled pan, letting the pastry edges climb up the sides. Brush lightly with oil, and add another sheet. Keep going until you have a pile of 8 oiled sheets. Add half the filling, spreading it to the edges, then repeat with 8 more sheets of oiled filo, followed by the remaining filling. Layer the rest of the filo over the filling, brushing oil in between. Oil the top, tuck in the edges, and bake uncovered for about 45 minutes or until golden and crispy (sometimes it's been closer to an hour). Cut into squares and serve hot or warm. 

Note: this recipe is original, which uses the oiled leaves, rather than making satchets. If you make satchets, place a fennel seed on each one.

=> gemini://nnix.com/index.gmi Home