# Design Your Life

* Write here about the process, introduce this whole mess.

## Overview
A "gravity problem" is one which you must accept, it will not be something you can design around, except via acceptance.

### Health
* 75%
* This is not a gravity problem.
* In all casual senses, my health is very good. I need to lose a modest amount of weight, which can be easily achieved with diet. I would like to remain in strong physical condition despite the (inevitable) loss of my COVID-era discipline, which was made possible by a stabilized schedule. It can be done.

### Work
* 50%
* This is not a gravity problem.
* I don't know what kind of company I want to work for, or what kind of job I want to have.

### Play
* 25%
* This is not a gravity problem.
* I would like to learn more, and be better at making time for hobbies over a longer term. I have too many hobbies in my back-log, and too little time, but that's partly under my influence.

### Love
* 75%
* Maybe a "gravity problem"?
* Relationship is top-notch, and stable. Requires substantial effort to maintain, and at the expense of other categories here. I have very little time available for any relationships beyond the strongest few.

## Work-view
### Why work?
I work for pay and for structure.

### What’s work for?
Work structures my efforts. This does not necessarily mean that my efforts without work would align completely with the things I do because I work, but there is not great dissonance. I work on things which at least partially align with my interests, and the constraints, conflicts, opportunities, and resources afforded these pursuits at work are far richer than they would be in a hobbyist context.

Beyond this structure, work affords me a high standard of living, facilitating personal pursuits. If work did not afford this standard of living, I would be disinclined to attenuate the time available for personal pursuits by working.

### What does work mean?
Any indiviual's work has little to no intrinsic meaning, offering primarily structure (constraints, conflicts, opportunities, resources) and it offers pay (resources which may be allocated to personal pursuit). The systemic effect of humans working has meaning - there's value and order created by cooperation.

### What defines good or worthwhile work?
Worthwhile work enriches the employee through opportunity - the opportunity to participate in a structured pursuit of a portion of one's interests.

### What does money have to do with it?
Pay can mitigate the degree to which the work in question does not align with one's interests. That is, if a job presents less opportunity to practice one's intrinsic interests, increased pay might compensate for decreased enrichment. Likewise, if a job reduces the time available for other outside-work pursuits, pay may compensate for this decreased opportunity. Naturally, at the extremes of the compensation-opportunity scale, the likelihood of work being worthwhile significantly decreases: few want high pay if it means little enrichment and no personal time, just as few would want to work without pay at a highly enriching job.

### What do experience, growth, and fulfillment have to do with it?
Because work transcends my own interests, resources, and incentives, participation in work exposes me to a far richer environment than would be possible in my personal (isolated) experience. My life is enriched by this exposure so long as the degree to which work distracts from, or attenuates, intrinsic enrichment is offset by new experiences.

## Life-view
### Why are we here?
### What is the meaning or purpose of life?
### What is the relationship between the individual and others?
### Where do family, country, and the rest of the world fit in?
### What is good, and what is evil?
### What impact does the transcendent have on your life?
### What is the role of joy/sorrow, justice/injustice, and peace/strife in life?