# Chocolate Chip Cookies

## David's Recipe, With Butter
### Ingredients
* 450g (4 sticks) unsalted butter
* 560g all-purpose flour
* 6g baking soda
* 8g table salt (1t)
* 560g granulated sugar
* 34g molasses
* 4 large eggs
* 20mL vanilla extract
* 450g semi-sweet chocolate chips

### Procedure
* Brown all the butter in a saucepan, takes about 10 minutes on medium-high heat. Should be golden brown and nutty-smelling, but not burned. Whisk frequently as it browns. Remove from heat and set aside to cool.
* Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl.
* Blend sugar with molasses using a pastry blender until homogeneous and declumped.
* In an appropriate stand type mixer, mix sugar-molasses, eggs, vanilla extract, beating on medium-high until thick ribbons fall from the whisk when lifted, perhaps 5 minutes.
* Test temperature of brown butter mixture, proceed only when it has dropped to less than 130F. Can use refrigerator to accelerate.
* Add flour mixture and mix on medium speed only until incorporated.
* Add chocolate chips and mix on low speed only until incorporated
* Transfer dough to an airtight storage container and refrigerate overnight.
* After overnight refrigeration, cut dough into 32 equal cubes, roll into balls. Freeze these for future use or bake immediately.
* When ready to bake, oven 325F for about 16 minutes.

## David's Recupe, With Coconut Oil
### Ingredients
* 160g coconut oil
* 320g sugar
* 20g molasses
* 310g all-purpose flour
* 200g semi-sweet chocolate chips
* 2t vanilla extract
* 2 eggs
* 0.75t kosher salt
* 1t baking soda

### Procedure
* Preheat oven to 375F
* Liquefy the coconut oil. We don't want it hot, just warm enough to be liquid (100F is fine).
* Blend sugar with molasses using a pastry blender until homogeneous and declumped.
* Combine liquid coconut oil, vanilla, eggs, and sugar-molasses. Whisk to combine.
* Add flour, kosher salt, and baking soda. Stir until smooth (or keep mixing in mixer).
* Add chocolate chips, stir until evenly distributed.
* Make 3T scoops / balls
* Bake 375F for 9-12 min. Cool on a wire rack.

## Scott McNeill's Recipe, With Butter
### Ingredients
* 2 sticks unsalted butter (a nice Irish butter is good here)
* ½ cup white sugar
* 1½ cups brown sugar (dark or light, I prefer dark)
* 2 eggs
* 11 ½ ounces AP flour (by weight, about 2 ¼ cups by volume)
* 1 Tbsp kosher salt (this is a lot, start with 1 tsp and adjust to your taste)
* ½ tsp baking soda
* ¾ tsp cinnamon (also a lot, maybe start with ¼ tsp)
* Chocolate chips (a whole 12 oz bag is not unwelcomed, choose your favorite)
* Nuts (walnuts or your favorite, optional)
* Flaky sea salt

### Procedure
* Start by browning 2 sticks of unsalted butter over medium heat. Once browned, place in a measuring cup and refrigerate for 1 hour or until it’s re-solidified.
* In the bowl of a stand mixer, add the butter along with ½ cup of white sugar and 1 ½ cups of brown sugar. Mix well to combine.
* Next add 2 cold eggs to the mixture and mix to combine.
* In a separate medium bowl, whisk together 11 ½ ounces of all-purpose flour, 1 tsp of kosher salt, ½ tsp of baking soda, and ¼ tsp of cinnamon.
* Add half of dry ingredients to the stand mixer, mix to combine, and then add the other half of the dry ingredients. Don’t over mix.
* Add your chocolate chips, stir just until everything is well combined and remove dough from mixer. Place in a bowl and refrigerate for at least an hour or as long as 2 days.
* Optional: You can toast some nuts and add those to your cookie dough as well.
* Roll your cookie dough into balls and then break in half and set on cookie sheet. This will help give the cookies a rustic look. Bake in a 350°F oven for 12-17 minutes or until they’ve reached your preferred doneness. Top with a little bit of sea salt.
* Remove to a wire rack to cool.


=> gemini://nnix.com/index.gmi Home