# Cinnamon Rolls, Fluffy

## Ingredients
### Tangzhong
113g whole milk
23g all purpose flour
### Dough
151g whole milk
300g all purpose flour
1t salt
25g granulated sugar
2t instant yeast
57 unsalted butter, soft
### Filling
1t butter, melted
107g brown sugar
2Tbsp all purpose flour
1.5Tbsp groung cinnamon
1t ground cardamom
pinch salt
### Icing
42g butter, melted, divided
0.5t vanilla extract
pinch salt
170g confectioners' sugar
2Tbsp heavy cream, milk, or buttermilk

## Procedure
(preheat oven to 375F)
### For the Tangzhong
Whisk the two ingredients in a small saucepan and cook over medium heat until thickened. Transfer to a large bowl.

### For the dough
Add the dough ingredients to the bowl with tangzhong in the order listed. Mix and knead to make a smooth, elastic, somewhat tacky dough. Cover and let rise until puffy, about 60-90min.

### To assemble
- Transfer the dough to a lightly greased work surface and pat it into a 10x12" rectangle.
- Stir together the filling ingredients and sprinkle over the dough, leaving a 0.5" strip uncovered on one of the long sides.
- Starting with the filling-covered long side, roll the dough into a log.
- Slice into eight equal pieces.
- Space the rolls 2"+ apart on a parchment lined baking sheet, tucking the tails underneath the rolls to hold them in place. Cover and let rise until puffy, 30-60min.
- Bake the rolls in a 375F oven for 14-18min, until light golden brown.
- Remove from the oven and brush with 1.5Tbsp melted butter (21g total, all rolls).
- Mix the remaining (21g) butter into the icing, ice the rolls while warm.