# org

Here's how I organize stuff, from tasks to folders and files, to projects.

## File & Folder Organization

=> https://johnnydecimal.com/ I have implemented a system inspired by Johnny Decimal.

### Projects (folders)
I have a full-time job, a side-gig or two, and, naturally, a personal life. As such, I've implemented projects as the first layer of my taxonomy.

000 - [Reserved for Management]
001 - Emerson
500 - Consulting, Company Management
501 to 899 - Consulting, per-customer
900 - [Reserved]
901 to 999 - Full-time Employment, 

### Areas (folders)
Areas are the second layer of my taxonomy. There are never more than ten areas per project.

001.00 to 001.09 - [Reserved for Management]
001.10 to 001.19 - Finance
001.20 to 001.29 - Residence
001.30 to 001.39 - 
001.40 to 001.49


### Categories (folders)
Categories are the third layer of my taxonomy. There are never more than ten categories per area.

001.10 to 001.19 - Finance
	001.10.10 - Financial Plan
	001.10.11 - Tax Returns
001.20 to 001.29 - Residence
	001.20.

### Reading
I shorten the Dewey Deciman Categories by one place, since I don't need anything more granular than the main high-level categories. "100", Philosophy & Psychology, becomes "10" and 400, "Language", becomes "40".

10 – Philosophy and psychology
20 – Religion
30 – Social sciences
40 – Language
50 – Pure Science
60 – Technology
70 – Arts and recreation
80 – Literature
90 – History and geography


## Photos & Music
Photos & Music (generally referred to as media) are somewhat exempt from this, since I've found no better way to store them than by-date.

## Tasks